Microdermabrasion and dermabrasion
are procedures that resurface your skin.
This means they remove the outer layers of your skin,
so that new skin can grow.
They may sound similar but have major differences.
During microdermabrasion,
a dermatologist or skin care specialist
removes dead or dying skin cells
in the top layer of your skin (the epidermis)
to make it look fresher.
They use a fine abrasive tip or crystals
to exfoliate and a vacuum to remove dead skin.
Right after microdermabrasion,
you can expect your skin to feel renewed and refreshed.
Dermabrasion is a serious procedure
done by a medical professional.
Your doctor will use a wire brush
or rotating wheel with a sandpaper-like surface
to remove the top layer of your skin (the epidermis)
and part of the second layer (the dermis).
This will make new skin grow.
You will be sedated before dermabrasion.
After, your skin may form a “crust”
or scab for 1-2 weeks.
Your skin will appear red, swollen, or irritated.
Once the scab falls off, you’ll see new skin.
Your doctor will explain
how to care for your skin while it heals.